docs/README.md, before:

# ![Laravel Nova Flexible Content](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/title.png)

An easy & complete Flexible Field for Laravel Nova, perfect for repeated and flexible field groups.

## Work In Progress

We're sorry, this package is still under development. We're expecting a release pretty soon, so stay tuned!

For more information & updates, please follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/whitecube_be).

![Laravel Nova Flexible Content in action](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/presentation.gif)

## Quick start

The Flexible field can be used in various ways and for different purposes, but in most cases you'll only need a few of its capabilities. Here's how to get started really quickly.

### Install

```
composer require whitecube/nova-flexible-content
```

### Usage

A flexible field allows easy management of repeatable and orderable groups of fields. As opposed to the few existing solutions for Laravel Nova, this one does not have constraints on which fields you are allowed to use within these groups. That means you can use all Laravel Nova field types, and also any community-made fields.

#### Adding layouts

A layout represents a group of fields that can be repeated inside the Flexible field. You can add as many different layouts as you wish. If only one layout is defined the field will behave like a simple Repeater and by adding more layouts you'll obtain a Flexible Content. Both concepts are similar to [their cousins in Wordpress' ACF Plugin](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/add-ons/).

Layouts can be added using the following method on your Flexible fields:
```php
 addLayout(string $title, string $name, array $fields)
 ```

The `$name` parameter is used to store the chosen layout in the field's value. Choose it wisely, you'll probably use it to identify the layouts in your application.

```php
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Flexible;

/**
 * Get the fields displayed by the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Illuminate\Http\Request  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function fields(Request $request)
{
    return [
        // ...

        Flexible::make('Content')
            ->addLayout('Simple content section', 'wysiwyg', [
                Text::make('Title'),
                Markdown::make('Content')
            ])
            ->addLayout('Video section', 'video', [
                Text::make('Title'),
                Image::make('Video Thumbnail', 'thumbnail'),
                Text::make('Video ID (YouTube)', 'video'),
                Text::make('Video Caption', 'caption')
            ])
    ];
}
```
![Example of Flexible layouts](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/example_layouts.png)

#### Customizing the button label

You can change the default "Add layout" button's text like so:

```php
Flexible::make('Content')
    ->button('Add something amazing!');
```

![Add something amazing](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/add_something_amazing.png)

## Custom Layout Classes

Sometimes, `addLayout` definitions can get quite long, or maybe you want them to be  shared with other `Flexible` fields. The answer to this is to extract your Layout into its own class.

```php
namespace App\Nova\Flexible\Layouts;

use Laravel\Nova\Fields\Text;
use Laravel\Nova\Fields\Markdown;
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Layouts\Layout;

class SimpleWysiwygLayout extends Layout
{
    /**
     * The layout's unique identifier
     *
     * @var string
     */
    protected $name = 'wysiwyg';

    /**
     * The displayed title
     *
     * @var string
     */
    protected $title = 'Simple content section';

    /**
     * Get the fields displayed by the layout.
     *
     * @return array
     */
    public function fields()
    {
        return [
            Text::make('Title'),
            Markdown::make('Content')
        ];
    }
}
```

You can then refer to this class as first and single parameter of the `addLayout(string $classname)` method:

```php
Flexible::make('Content')
    ->addLayout(\App\Nova\Flexible\Layouts\SimpleWysiwygLayout::class);
```


You can create these Layout classes easily with the following artisan command
```
php artisan flexible:layout {classname?} {name?}

// Ex: php artisan flexible:layout SimpleWysiwygLayout wysiwyg
```


## Predefined Preset Classes

In addition to reusable Layout classes, you can go a step further and create `Preset` classes for your Flexible fields. These allow you to reuse your whole Flexible field anywhere you want. They also make it easier to make your Flexible fields dynamic, for example if you want to add Layouts conditionally. And last but not least, they also have the added benefit of cleaning up your Nova Resource classes, if your Flexible field has a lot of `addLayout` definitions. 

```php
namespace App\Nova\Flexible\Presets;

use App\PageBlocks;
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Flexible;
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Layouts\Preset;

class WysiwygPagePreset extends Preset
{

    /**
     * The available blocks
     *
     * @var Illuminate\Support\Collection
     */
    protected $blocks;

    /**
     * Create a new preset instance
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function __construct()
    {
        $this->blocks = PageBlocks::orderBy('label')->get();
    }

    /**
     * Execute the preset configuration
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function handle(Flexible $field)
    {
        $field->button('Add new block');
        $field->resolver(\App\Nova\Flexible\Resolvers\WysiwygPageResolver::class);
        $field->help('Go to the "<strong>Page blocks</strong>" Resource in order to add new WYSIWYG block types.');

        $this->blocks->each(function($block) use ($field) {
            $field->addLayout($block->title, $block->id, $block->getLayoutFields());
        });
    }
}
```

Then you just reference the preset when you define your Flexible field like so
```php
Flexible::make('Content')
    ->preset(\App\Nova\Flexible\Presets\WysiwygPagePreset::class);
```

You can create these Preset classes easily with the following artisan command:
```
php artisan flexible:preset {classname?}

// Ex: php artisan flexible:preset WysiwygPagePreset
```


## Custom Resolver Classes

By default, the field takes advantage of a **JSON column** on your model's table. In some cases, a JSON attribute is just not the way to go. For example, you could want to store the values in another table (meaning you'll be using the Flexible Content field instead of a traditional BelongsToMany or HasMany field). No worries, we've got you covered!

First, create the new Resolver class. For convenience, this can be achieved using the following artisan command:
```
php artisan flexible:resolver {classname?}

// Ex: php artisan flexible:preset WysiwygPageResolver
```

It will place the new Resolver class in your project's `app/Nova/Flexible/Resolvers` directory. Each Resolver should implement the `Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Value\ResolverInterface` contract and therefore feature at least two methods: `set` and `get`.

### Resolving the field

The `get` method is used to resolve the field's content. It is responsible to retrieve the content from somewhere and return a collection of hydrated Layouts. For example, we could want to retrieve the values on a `blocks` table and transform them into Layout instance:

```php
/**
 * get the field's value
 *
 * @param  mixed  $resource
 * @param  string $attribute
 * @param  Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Layouts\Collection $layouts
 * @return Illuminate\Support\Collection
 */
public function get($resource, $attribute, $layouts) {
    $blocks = $resource->blocks()->orderBy('order')->get();

    return $blocks->map(function($block) use ($layouts) {
        $layout = $layouts->find($block->name);

        if(!$layout) return;

        return $layout->duplicateAndHydrate($block->id, ['value' => $block->value]);
    })->filter();
}
```

### Filling the field

The `set` method is responsible for saving the Flexible's content somewhere the `get` method will be able to access it. In our example, it should store the data in a `blocks` table:

```php
/**
 * Set the field's value
 *
 * @param  mixed  $model
 * @param  string $attribute
 * @param  Illuminate\Support\Collection $groups
 * @return void
 */
public function set($model, $attribute, $groups)
{
    $class = get_class($model);

    $class::saved(function ($model) use ($groups) {
        $blocks = $groups->map(function($group, $index) {
            return [
                'name' => $group->name(),
                'value' => json_encode($group->getAttributes()),
                'order' => $index
            ];
        });

        // This is a quick & dirty example, syncing the models is probably a better idea.
        $model->blocks()->delete();
        $model->blocks()->createMany($blocks);
    });
}
```

## Contributing

Feel free to suggest changes, ask for new features or fix bugs yourself. We're sure there are still a lot of improvements that could be made and we would be very happy to merge useful pull requests.

Thanks!


## Made with ❤️ for open source
At [Whitecube](https://www.whitecube.be) we use a lot of open source software as part of our daily work.
So when we have an opportunity to give something back, we're super excited!  
We hope you will enjoy this small contribution from us and would love to [hear from you](mailto:hello@whitecube.be) if you find it useful in your projects.

Commit message:

Updated Preset Documentation (added note about dependency-injection)

docs/README.md, after:

# ![Laravel Nova Flexible Content](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/title.png)

An easy & complete Flexible Field for Laravel Nova, perfect for repeated and flexible field groups.

## Work In Progress

We're sorry, this package is still under development. We're expecting a release pretty soon, so stay tuned!

For more information & updates, please follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/whitecube_be).

![Laravel Nova Flexible Content in action](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/presentation.gif)

## Quick start

The Flexible field can be used in various ways and for different purposes, but in most cases you'll only need a few of its capabilities. Here's how to get started really quickly.

### Install

```
composer require whitecube/nova-flexible-content
```

### Usage

A flexible field allows easy management of repeatable and orderable groups of fields. As opposed to the few existing solutions for Laravel Nova, this one does not have constraints on which fields you are allowed to use within these groups. That means you can use all Laravel Nova field types, and also any community-made fields.

#### Adding layouts

A layout represents a group of fields that can be repeated inside the Flexible field. You can add as many different layouts as you wish. If only one layout is defined the field will behave like a simple Repeater and by adding more layouts you'll obtain a Flexible Content. Both concepts are similar to [their cousins in Wordpress' ACF Plugin](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/add-ons/).

Layouts can be added using the following method on your Flexible fields:
```php
 addLayout(string $title, string $name, array $fields)
 ```

The `$name` parameter is used to store the chosen layout in the field's value. Choose it wisely, you'll probably use it to identify the layouts in your application.

```php
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Flexible;

/**
 * Get the fields displayed by the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Illuminate\Http\Request  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function fields(Request $request)
{
    return [
        // ...

        Flexible::make('Content')
            ->addLayout('Simple content section', 'wysiwyg', [
                Text::make('Title'),
                Markdown::make('Content')
            ])
            ->addLayout('Video section', 'video', [
                Text::make('Title'),
                Image::make('Video Thumbnail', 'thumbnail'),
                Text::make('Video ID (YouTube)', 'video'),
                Text::make('Video Caption', 'caption')
            ])
    ];
}
```
![Example of Flexible layouts](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/example_layouts.png)

#### Customizing the button label

You can change the default "Add layout" button's text like so:

```php
Flexible::make('Content')
    ->button('Add something amazing!');
```

![Add something amazing](https://github.com/whitecube/nova-flexible-content/raw/master/add_something_amazing.png)

## Custom Layout Classes

Sometimes, `addLayout` definitions can get quite long, or maybe you want them to be  shared with other `Flexible` fields. The answer to this is to extract your Layout into its own class.

```php
namespace App\Nova\Flexible\Layouts;

use Laravel\Nova\Fields\Text;
use Laravel\Nova\Fields\Markdown;
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Layouts\Layout;

class SimpleWysiwygLayout extends Layout
{
    /**
     * The layout's unique identifier
     *
     * @var string
     */
    protected $name = 'wysiwyg';

    /**
     * The displayed title
     *
     * @var string
     */
    protected $title = 'Simple content section';

    /**
     * Get the fields displayed by the layout.
     *
     * @return array
     */
    public function fields()
    {
        return [
            Text::make('Title'),
            Markdown::make('Content')
        ];
    }
}
```

You can then refer to this class as first and single parameter of the `addLayout(string $classname)` method:

```php
Flexible::make('Content')
    ->addLayout(\App\Nova\Flexible\Layouts\SimpleWysiwygLayout::class);
```


You can create these Layout classes easily with the following artisan command
```
php artisan flexible:layout {classname?} {name?}

// Ex: php artisan flexible:layout SimpleWysiwygLayout wysiwyg
```


## Predefined Preset Classes

In addition to reusable Layout classes, you can go a step further and create `Preset` classes for your Flexible fields. These allow you to reuse your whole Flexible field anywhere you want. They also make it easier to make your Flexible fields dynamic, for example if you want to add Layouts conditionally. And last but not least, they also have the added benefit of cleaning up your Nova Resource classes, if your Flexible field has a lot of `addLayout` definitions. 

```php
namespace App\Nova\Flexible\Presets;

use App\PageBlocks;
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Flexible;
use Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Layouts\Preset;

class WysiwygPagePreset extends Preset
{

    /**
     * The available blocks
     *
     * @var Illuminate\Support\Collection
     */
    protected $blocks;

    /**
     * Create a new preset instance
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function __construct()
    {
        $this->blocks = PageBlocks::orderBy('label')->get();
    }

    /**
     * Execute the preset configuration
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function handle(Flexible $field)
    {
        $field->button('Add new block');
        $field->resolver(\App\Nova\Flexible\Resolvers\WysiwygPageResolver::class);
        $field->help('Go to the "<strong>Page blocks</strong>" Resource in order to add new WYSIWYG block types.');

        $this->blocks->each(function($block) use ($field) {
            $field->addLayout($block->title, $block->id, $block->getLayoutFields());
        });
    }
}
```

Please note that Preset classes are resolved using Laravel's Container, meaning you can type-hint any useful dependency in the Preset's `__construct()` method.

Once the Preset is defined, just reference its classname in your Flexible field using the `preset` method:
```php
Flexible::make('Content')
    ->preset(\App\Nova\Flexible\Presets\WysiwygPagePreset::class);
```

You can create these Preset classes easily with the following artisan command:
```
php artisan flexible:preset {classname?}

// Ex: php artisan flexible:preset WysiwygPagePreset
```


## Custom Resolver Classes

By default, the field takes advantage of a **JSON column** on your model's table. In some cases, a JSON attribute is just not the way to go. For example, you could want to store the values in another table (meaning you'll be using the Flexible Content field instead of a traditional BelongsToMany or HasMany field). No worries, we've got you covered!

First, create the new Resolver class. For convenience, this can be achieved using the following artisan command:
```
php artisan flexible:resolver {classname?}

// Ex: php artisan flexible:preset WysiwygPageResolver
```

It will place the new Resolver class in your project's `app/Nova/Flexible/Resolvers` directory. Each Resolver should implement the `Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Value\ResolverInterface` contract and therefore feature at least two methods: `set` and `get`.

### Resolving the field

The `get` method is used to resolve the field's content. It is responsible to retrieve the content from somewhere and return a collection of hydrated Layouts. For example, we could want to retrieve the values on a `blocks` table and transform them into Layout instance:

```php
/**
 * get the field's value
 *
 * @param  mixed  $resource
 * @param  string $attribute
 * @param  Whitecube\NovaFlexibleContent\Layouts\Collection $layouts
 * @return Illuminate\Support\Collection
 */
public function get($resource, $attribute, $layouts) {
    $blocks = $resource->blocks()->orderBy('order')->get();

    return $blocks->map(function($block) use ($layouts) {
        $layout = $layouts->find($block->name);

        if(!$layout) return;

        return $layout->duplicateAndHydrate($block->id, ['value' => $block->value]);
    })->filter();
}
```

### Filling the field

The `set` method is responsible for saving the Flexible's content somewhere the `get` method will be able to access it. In our example, it should store the data in a `blocks` table:

```php
/**
 * Set the field's value
 *
 * @param  mixed  $model
 * @param  string $attribute
 * @param  Illuminate\Support\Collection $groups
 * @return void
 */
public function set($model, $attribute, $groups)
{
    $class = get_class($model);

    $class::saved(function ($model) use ($groups) {
        $blocks = $groups->map(function($group, $index) {
            return [
                'name' => $group->name(),
                'value' => json_encode($group->getAttributes()),
                'order' => $index
            ];
        });

        // This is a quick & dirty example, syncing the models is probably a better idea.
        $model->blocks()->delete();
        $model->blocks()->createMany($blocks);
    });
}
```

## Contributing

Feel free to suggest changes, ask for new features or fix bugs yourself. We're sure there are still a lot of improvements that could be made and we would be very happy to merge useful pull requests.

Thanks!


## Made with ❤️ for open source
At [Whitecube](https://www.whitecube.be) we use a lot of open source software as part of our daily work.
So when we have an opportunity to give something back, we're super excited!  
We hope you will enjoy this small contribution from us and would love to [hear from you](mailto:hello@whitecube.be) if you find it useful in your projects.
